February 13, 2023 

The Honorable Chiquita Brooks-LaSure 
Administrator  
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services 
Hubert H. Humphrey Building 
200 Independence Avenue, S.W., Room 445-G 
Washington, DC 20201 

Re: CMS–855A, Agency Information Collection: Medicare Enrollment Application 
for Institutional Providers (Vol. 87, No. 240), December 15, 2022. 

Dear Administrator Brooks-LaSure: 

On behalf of our nearly 5,000 member hospitals, health systems and other health care 
organizations, our clinician partners — including more than 270,000 affiliated 
physicians, 2 million nurses and other caregivers — and the 43,000 health care leaders 
who belong to our professional membership groups, the American Hospital Association 
(AHA) appreciates the opportunity to comment on the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid 
Services’ (CMS) information collection request regarding the revision of the Medicare 
Enrollment Application for Institutional Providers (CMS-855A).  

There are several areas of proposed changes to the enrollment application with which 
the AHA has concerns. These include: 

•  Section 2A’s proposed elimination of the physician-owned hospital (POH) 

question;  

•  Section 4A regarding whether practice locations are provider-based, and if so, 

the type of provider-based department (PBD); 

•  Section 4C2 about the electronic storage of patient medical records; and 
•  Section 5A asking whether an organization is itself owned by any other 

organization or individual. 

Section 2A: Physician-owned Hospitals  

The AHA opposes CMS’ proposal to eliminate POH reporting in the CMS-855A. 
We urge the agency to maintain use of question 2A3, which captures whether an 
organization is a POH. This information is necessary to track these organizations and 
capture statutorily required data elements. Additionally, we urge the agency to issue 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Honorable Chiquita Brooks-LaSure  
February 13, 2023 
Page 2 of 5 

additional forms and/or questions regarding POHs to comply with the reporting 
requirements mandated in the Affordable Care Act (ACA).  

Indeed, for more than two decades, community hospitals, policymakers, the business 
community and governmental advisory bodies have grappled with overutilization and 
higher health care costs caused by self-referral to POHs. Conflicts of interest are 
inherent in these arrangements, whereby physicians refer their patients to hospitals in 
which they have an ownership interest.  

In 2010, after a decade of studies and congressional hearings showing the adverse 
impact of these arrangements, Congress acted to protect the Medicare and Medicaid 
programs, and the taxpayers who fund them, by imposing a ban on self-referral to new 
POHs. Section 6001 of the ACA prohibited the creation of new POHs that can bill 
Medicare and Medicaid, and generally prohibited expansion of POH facility capacity 
unless certain exception criteria are met for community needs or high Medicaid 
services. Existing POHs could continue operating and admitting Medicare and Medicaid 
patients. 

Legislation also required the reporting of physician ownership information on an annual 
basis. Therefore, in 2011, CMS added an attachment to the CMS-855A to capture 
ownership and investment information. This was removed from the form in 2013 under 
the pretense the agency would create a separate CMS-855POH form to be completed 
on an annual basis. The CMS-855POH was approved by the Office of Management and 
Budget in 2013; however, CMS announced in 2015 that reporting using the CMS-
855POH and Attachment 1 would be suspended until further notice citing concerns 
about data accuracy. Eight years later, the agency is still not in compliance with Section 
6001 requirements.  

This means that the current question in the CMS Form 855A is the only way to 
identify POHs. If it is eliminated, it is unclear how POHs will be identified and tracked, 
and as such, how compliance would be assured for requirements set forth in section 
6001 of the ACA. For these reasons, the AHA requests continued use of question 
2A3 and updates on the status of implementation for the 855POH. 

Section 4A: Provider-based Practice Locations 

The AHA urges CMS not to finalize its proposed provider-based practice location 
questions on the Form 855A, as they are redundant with data already available to 
the agency. If CMS declines to do so, we recommend that the agency significantly 
increase the burden estimates included in its Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) 
submission to indicate a more realistic time estimate for providing this 
information.   

Specifically, CMS proposes several additions to Section 4A: Practice Location 
Information, including a question about the date the first Medicare patient was/will be 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Honorable Chiquita Brooks-LaSure  
February 13, 2023 
Page 3 of 5 

seen at a practice location and new check boxes to indicate whether the location being 
changed, added or removed is provider-based and what type of PBD it is. It is clear 
from the substance of the questions, the agency’s supporting statement for the PRA 
submission and the CMS-855A application revisions justifications1 that the intention is to 
assist CMS in identifying PBDs that are subject to the site-neutral payment reductions 
under Sec. 603 of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015.  

However, the AHA is concerned that these changes will significantly increase 
provider burden, far more than the 15 minutes per provider estimated in the 
agency’s PRA submission. First, this is not merely a matter of entering a date and 
checking boxes; it will require that providers carefully research the various sections of 
the regulations cited in the form and also likely would require review of CMS interpretive 
guidance to ensure that the questions are correctly answered. Further, for providers 
with more than one off-campus practice location, this new section will necessitate that 
they review and, as appropriate, change/add/remove such data for each of these 
practice locations. Such an endeavor could take multiple hours as many individuals may 
need to research the regulations, which are complex.  

Moreover, CMS already has ready access to information about which PBDs are 
excepted or non-excepted. For several years the agency has required that hospitals 
with off-campus PBDs attach the “PO” modifier (required on services furnished in an 
excepted off-campus PBD) and the “PN” modifier (required on services furnished in a 
non-excepted off-campus PBD) to indicate the status of each service on a claim. The 
use of these modifiers has been widely operationalized by the hospitals and health 
systems and can be relied upon to indicate the status of each service and PBD. Further, 
the location in which a service is furnished is available because the hospital claim form 
reports the address of the specific location in which the service took place (e.g., on the 
paper UB-04 form, this would be the FL01 field).  

For these reasons, the AHA urges CMS not to finalize these burdensome, and 
redundant, additions to the 855A form.  

Section 4C2: Medicare Beneficiary Medical Records Storage Address – Electronic 
Storage 

In Section 4C2, CMS proposes to add a new section regarding whether beneficiary 
medical records are stored electronically and, if so, where/how these records are 
stored. The new section notes that “This must be an electronic storage site that can be 
accessed by CMS or its designees if necessary.” We are concerned about this question 
given the increased targeting of hospitals and health systems by cyber adversaries. 

1 “Section 603 of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 (Pub. L. 114-74), enacted on November 2, 2015, amended 
section 1833(t) of the Act and relates to payment for certain items and services furnished by off-campus provider-
based departments of a hospital. Requires that we correctly identify off-campus providers and those excepted. New 
practice location choice added. Reduces provider burden of having to explain this circumstance in section 4D3 
(Comments/Special Circumstances).” 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Honorable Chiquita Brooks-LaSure  
February 13, 2023 
Page 4 of 5 

Indeed, hospitals are obligated to defend against and remain vigilant about the security 
of their networks and electronic health information to prevent attempts to steal patient 
data and disrupt health care delivery.  

We do not understand the circumstances under which the electronic location of 
these records would be accessed by CMS, which “designees” would have access 
to this information, and, if access is granted, how the location and the electronic 
data would be protected against breaches. Due to the sensitive nature of the 
proposed question 4C2 itself, and until the agency can provide an explanation of 
how it intends to protect access to and use this provider enrollment information, 
we urge CMS not to finalize these changes. Finally, we strongly recommend that 
CMS review these plans with the Department of Homeland Security and the 
Federal Bureau of Investigation, which have been working closely with hospitals 
and health systems to defend against cyber intrusion and protect the 
confidentiality of our patients’ data. 

Section 5A: Organizations with Ownership Interest and/or Managing Control —
Identification Information  

In Section 5A, for all ownership roles listed, CMS adds the question, “Is this 
organization itself owned by any other organization or by any individual?” The agency 
notes that this was added at the request of the Department of Health and Human 
Services Assistant Secretary for Planning and Evaluation “to identify organizations, 
such as SNFs or hospitals, with the same ultimate parent,” and would facilitate 
investigating whether a program integrity issue found in one provider was prevalent in 
other providers under the same ultimate parent. 

The AHA strongly supports efforts to reduce fraud and abuse in the Medicare program. 
However, we are concerned about this question simply being a precursor to additional 
administratively burdensome disclosures. Specifically, it would enable implementation of 
a 2019 CMS final rule on program integrity enhancements to the provider enrollment 
process about which we expressed deep concerns. This 2019 final rule contained overly 
burdensome and unworkable provisions that will set providers up for failure and 
possible enforcement actions.  

Therefore, we urge the agency to postpone adoption of this question until it can 
better assess the ability of providers and suppliers to comply with it, as well as 
with the 2019 rule. At the very least, the agency should expressly state why it is adding 
this question and demonstrate that it is not connected with the flawed 2019 rule. We 
recommend that CMS implement a more reasonable and less burdensome approach to 
enhance program integrity. 

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Honorable Chiquita Brooks-LaSure  
February 13, 2023 
Page 5 of 5 

The AHA appreciates the opportunity to comment on this information collection. If you 
have any questions concerning our comments, please feel free to contact Roslyne 
Schulman, AHA’s director for policy, at (202) 626-2273 or rschulman@aha.org. 

Sincerely, 

/s/ 

Ashley B. Thompson 
Senior Vice President 
Public Policy Analysis and Development