Incyte Corporation 
1801 Augustine Cut-Off  
Wilmington, DE 19803 
Tel: 302.498.6700 
Web: www.incyte.com 

March 27, 2023 

SUBMITTED ELECTRONICALLY VIA http://www.regulations.gov  

William N. Parham, III   
Director, Paperwork Reduction Staff 
Office of Strategic Operations and Regulatory Affairs 
Division of Regulations Development  
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services  
Room C4-26-05 
7500 Security Boulevard  
Baltimore, MD 21244-1850  

Re:  Agency Information Collection Activities: Proposed Collection; Comment Request [CMS-10844] 

Dear Mr. Parham:  

Incyte appreciates the opportunity to submit comments in response to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid 
Services’ (CMS’s) Information Collection Request (ICR) regarding the Small Biotech Exception from the Medicare 
Drug Price Negotiation Program (Program).1 Incyte is a U.S.-based biopharmaceutical company founded on the 
premise that investment in strong science and the relentless pursuit of research and development (R&D) 
excellence can translate into new solutions that can positively affect patients’ lives.  

Incyte recognizes that CMS has a significant task ahead to implement the provisions of the Inflation Reduction Act 
(IRA). We appreciate that this ICR to identify small biotech drugs is one of the Agency’s first public actions. Incyte 
intends to submit information on Jakafi® in order to qualify for the Small Biotech Exception.  

Incyte’s R&D team in Wilmington, Delaware discovered and developed Jakafi® (ruxolitinib) (“Jakafi”). Jakafi is an 
oral tablet drug that is FDA-approved in 5mg, 10mg, 15mg, 20mg, and 25mg dosage strengths for the treatment 
of: (1) “intermediate or high-risk myelofibrosis (MF), including primary MF, post-polycythemia vera MF and post-
essential thrombocythemia MF in adults”; (2) “polycythemia vera in adults who have had an inadequate response 
to or are intolerant of hydroxyurea”; (3) “steroid-refractory acute graft-versus-host disease in adult and pediatric 
patients 12 years and older”; and (4) “chronic graft-versus-host disease (cGVHD) after failure of one or two lines 
of systemic therapy in adult and pediatric patients 12 years and older.” See Jakafi Prescribing Information.2  With 
respect to the first three of these indications, Jakafi was the first FDA-approved branded pharmaceutical 
treatment for patients having these serious diseases.   

In 2022 alone, Incyte invested $1.6 billion on R&D, representing nearly 47% of the company’s total net revenues 
during that time. Revenue from sales of our approved products, chiefly Jakafi, fuel Incyte’s clinical development 
program of 25 investigational medicines intended to transform the treatment of cancer and inflammatory and 

1 88 Fed. Reg. 4184 (Jan. 24, 2023).  
2 https://www.jakafi.com/pdf/prescribing-information.pdf 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                 
autoimmune conditions.3    

Incyte’s marketed products now include Opzelura™ (ruxolitinib) cream and Pemazyre® (pemigatinib), which also 
were discovered and developed in-house at Incyte’s R&D headquarters in Delaware and represent first-in-class 
treatments for patients suffering from nonsegmental vitiligo, cholangiocarcinoma, and myeloid/lymphoid 
neoplasms (MLNs). We are purposeful in focusing our science in areas where we believe we can have a significant 
impact, regardless of the disease or size of the patient population. We are proud that this approach has resulted 
in a strong heritage of Incyte-discovered, first-in-class medicines for patients.  

Jakafi meets the statutory definitions for the Small Biotech Exception as outlined in the IRA. Incyte’s comments to 
CMS include the following recommendations:    

I. 
II. 

III. 
IV. 

Publish a List of Part D Drugs that Qualify for the Small Biotech Exception in 2026 
Provide Flexibility for Manufacturers When Submitting the Small Biotech Exception Information Collection 
Request Form  
Clarify the “New Formulations” Provision of the Small Biotech Exception 
Clarify Data Elements Included on the Small Biotech Form 

a.  Define if Manufacturers Need to Submit NDC-11s Only for the Small Biotech Drug, or If the 

Submission Should Include NDC-11s for All “Qualified Single Source Drugs”, as Determined By 
CMS (Question 2) 

b.  Specify that Manufacturers Should Submit Controlled Group Information Only for Those Entities 

Which Had a Coverage Gap Discount Program Agreement with CMS (Question 4) 

c.  Limit the Scope of the Certification to the Drug Price Negotiation Program  

****** 

I. 

CMS Should Publish a List of Part D Drugs that Qualify for the Small Biotech Exception in 2026 

The ICR proposes to collect information from manufacturers to determine if any of the manufacturer’s products 
meets the Small Biotech Exception with respect to initial price applicability year 2026.4 After manufacturers 
request this exemption, Incyte encourages CMS to publish a complete list of Part D drugs that qualify for the Small 
Biotech Exception for price applicability period 2026. A published list will provide Incyte and other qualifying 
manufacturers with much-needed certainty about whether their products qualify for the Small Biotech Exception 
and will give Incyte the confidence to continue reinvesting nearly 50% of our revenue in R&D, which we believe is 
consistent with Congressional intent.  

Congress’ intention for the small biotech provisions of the IRA were referenced in the principles released by the 
Senate Finance Committee Chair Ron Wyden (D-OR) in June 2021.5 The document recognizes that 
“groundbreaking new treatments” targeted at unmet need “can largely be traced back to small biotechnology 
companies that take on a disproportionate share of the risk of R&D” and references the committee’s intent to 
“protect [small biotechnology companies’] ability to innovate.”6  Publishing the list of qualifying exempted drugs is 

3 Incyte Corporation Pharmaceutical Portfolio, https://www.incyte.com/what-we-do/pharmaceutical-portfolio (last visited 
March 6, 2023). 
4 Small Biotech ICR Form (CMS 10844, OMB 0938-NEW) at 1.  
5 Senate Finance Committee (2021, June 22). Principles for Drug Pricing Reform. finance.senate.gov. Retrieved March 3, 2023, 
from https://www.finance.senate.gov/imo/media/doc/062221%20SFC%20Drug%20Pricing%20Principles.pdf 
6 Id. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                 
 
 
consistent with congressional intent because it will provide Incyte and similar companies with the continued 
confidence to invest in the next generation of treatments. 

Incyte believes that publication of the Small Biotech Exceptions list creates minimal additional burden for CMS 
since the Agency will already have collected and analyzed the data to establish this list internally prior to 
publishing the selected drug list,7 and it would be an appropriate complement to HHS’s publication of the Part D 
drugs selected for Medicare negotiation in 2026. As further evidence of the minimal burden, the Agency estimates 
that the number of Part D drugs that qualify for the small biotech exception in 2026 to be 10, the same number of 
drugs that the agency will publicize as part of its statutorily-set selection of 10 Part D drugs for negotiation.8  

Subsequent to the publication of the ICR, CMS issued a separate guidance on the Medicare Drug Price Negotiation 
Program that includes additional considerations for Small Biotech Drugs. 9 In the March 15 guidance, CMS states 
that “The Submitting Manufacturer must resubmit a request for the drug to be considered for the exception for 
the initial price applicability years 2027 and 2028.” As such, Incyte encourages the Agency to publish updated lists 
of excepted drugs in subsequent years.  

II. 

CMS Should Provide Flexibility for Manufacturers When Submitting the Small Biotech Exception 
Information Collection Request Form  

CMS states its intent to “develop an automated tool within an existing information technology system, the Health 
Plan Management System (HPMS), for manufacturers to submit the Small Biotech Exception Information 
Collection Request Form.”10 Although CMS intends to launch this new automated tool by “mid-2023,” if the tool is 
not developed in time, “CMS will accept responses to this ICR by mail . . . using a mailing address that CMS will 
provide in program instruction.”11 

CMS’s proposal to require manufacturers to submit Small Biotech Exception requests through the HPMS system 
could cause unwanted complications and delays for the agency and the manufacturers submitting the Exception 
request. The Small Biotech Exception is intended for smaller manufacturers, many of whom may not have 
experience navigating the HPMS system. Further, we are concerned that the tool may be rigid in nature, and we 
advocate that CMS allow for a flexible approach. Finally, we share CMS’s concern that the new automated tool 
may be delayed, and believe that such a delay will limit the amount of time that manufacturers have to familiarize 
themselves with the HPMS system before the Small Biotech Exception request is due.  

Therefore, Incyte recommends that this new tool should be available to manufacturers at least 30 days before the 
Small Biotech Exception submission deadline. This will give smaller manufacturers an opportunity to become 
familiar with the HPMS system and the new automated tool. It also will give CMS and manufacturers an 
opportunity to resolve any questions or technical issues before Small Biotech Exception requests are due. We also 
request that CMS provide manufacturers with a specified point of contact at the agency who has been trained on 
the new tool and can help manufacturers navigate the submission process.   
Additionally, we request that CMS provide manufacturers with the option to submit a Small Biotech Exception 
request by mail—regardless of whether the automated tool is delayed. This flexibility would reduce burdens on 

7 88 Fed. Reg. 4184-4185 (“The Information Collection Request Form for the Small Biotech Exception must be submitted to 
CMS before CMS establishes the selected drug list of initial price applicability year 2026”). 
8 Small Biotech Exception Information Collection Request, Supporting Statement – Part A, at 3 “A Submitting Manufacturer is 
expected to submit the information only once for each drug for which the Submitting Manufacturer seeks the Small Biotech 
Exception”); id. at 5 (CMS estimates “10 total respondents in 2023”).  
9 Medicare Drug Price Negotiation Program: Initial Memorandum, Implementation of Sections 1191 – 1198 of the Social 
Security Act for Initial Price Applicability Year 2026, and Solicitation of Comments, Section 30.2.1 
10 Small Biotech Exception Information Collection Request (CMS-10844, OMB 0938-NEW), Supporting Statement – A, at 2.  
11 Id.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                 
smaller manufacturers, who may not have direct experience navigating the HPMS system. Because CMS expects 
only 10 respondents in 2023, we do not anticipate that receiving paper submissions would significantly increase 
CMS’ administrative burden.  

III. 

CMS Should Clarify the “New Formulations” Provision of the Small Biotech Exception  

Under the IRA, a “small biotech drug” is a “qualifying single source drug” that meets certain criteria generally 
related to Medicare total expenditures.12 The IRA further specifies that “[a] new formulation, such as an extended 
release formulation, of a qualifying single source drug shall not be considered a [small biotech drug].”13 However, 
neither the Medicare Drug Price Negotiation Program guidance nor this Small Biotech Exception ICR address how 
CMS interprets the “new formulation” provision with respect to the Small Biotech Exception.  

Contrary to the statute,14 the Medicare Drug Price Negotiation Program guidance adopts an expansive 
interpretation of a “qualifying single source drug.” For a drug approved under a new drug application (NDA),15 the 
guidance states, in relevant part, that a “qualifying single source drug” includes “all dosage forms and strengths 
with the same active moiety and the same holder of a [NDA], inclusive of products that are marketed pursuant to 
different NDAs.”16 To determine whether a drug meets the seven year threshold, CMS “intends to use the earliest 
date of approval . . . of the initial FDA application number assigned to the [NDA] holder for the [active moiety] . . . 
.”17 Therefore, under CMS’s interpretation, it appears that as long as one NDA was approved at least seven years 
before the selected drug publication date, approvals under any NDA would be part of the same “qualifying single 
source drug,” as long as each product has the same active moiety and NDA holder. Incyte strongly disagrees with 
CMS’s interpretation of a qualifying single source drug, which goes beyond extended-release formulations. We 
also are concerned that CMS is not accepting comments on the “qualifying single source drug” definition, the 
Small Biotech Exception, and other foundational issues in Section 30 of the Medicare Drug Price Negotiation 
Program guidance related to how CMS will identify drugs for selection. 

As Incyte has previously communicated with CMS, ruxolitinib is the active pharmaceutical ingredient in two 
separate drugs that are marketed by Incyte, Jakafi and Opzelura™ (ruxolitinib) cream. Opzelura has no 
overlapping approved indications in common with Jakafi in whole or in part.  Opzelura is FDA-approved for these 
two indications: (1) “the topical short-term and non-continuous chronic treatment of mild to moderate atopic 
dermatitis in non-immunocompromised adult and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older whose disease is 
not adequately controlled with topical prescription therapies or when those therapies are not advisable”; and (2) 
“the topical treatment of nonsegmental vitiligo in adult and pediatric patients 12 years of age and older.” See 
Opzelura Prescribing Information. 

For a number of reasons, including those listed below, Incyte believes that Opzelura is not a “new formulation” of 
Jakafi.  Opzelura, compared to Jakafi, is:  

12 Specifically, a Part D drug is a “small biotech drug” if in 2021, the “total expenditures for the qualifying single source drug” 
were: (a) equal to or less than one percent of total expenditures under Part D for all covered Part D drugs; and (b) equal to at 
least 80 percent of total expenditures for all of the manufacturer’s covered Part D drugs. SSA 1192(d)(2)(A). 
13 SSA 1192(d)(2)(C). 
14 The statute limits a “qualifying single source drug” to approvals under a single new drug application (NDA) or biologics 
license application (BLA). In relevant part for a drug approved under a NDA, the IRA defines a “qualifying single source drug” 
as a drug “that is approved under section 505(c) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act” and “for which, as of the 
selected drug publication date . . . at least 7 years will have elapsed since the date of such approval.”14 SSA § 1192(e)(1)(A) 
(emphasis added). 
15 CMS adopts a similar definition of a “qualifying single source drug” for biological products. 
16 Medicare Drug Price Negotiation Program: Initial Memorandum, Implementation of Sections 1191 – 1198 of the Social 
Security Act for Initial Price Applicability Year 2026, and Solicitation of Comments, Section 30.1.  
17 Id.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                 
 

indicated to treat entirely different conditions in a different therapeutic area—dermatological vs. 
antineoplastic indications—with no overlap;  
 
supported by different safety and efficacy data developed specifically in relation to the new topical drug; 
  not interchangeable—oral tablet Jakafi cannot be used to treat eczema, and topical Opzelura cannot be 

used to treat any of Jakafi’s oncological indications;  

  an entirely different dosage form—topical cream applied to the skin compared to an oral tablet; 
 

the subject of a separate New Drug Application (NDA) (not a supplemental NDA) supported by an array of 
human studies, including multiple, large Phase III clinical studies;  
sold under its own trade name and standalone labeling; and covered by new patents that Incyte obtained 
based on its innovation in creating new treatments in an entirely different therapeutic area. 

 

If CMS nonetheless retains this interpretation of a “qualifying single source drug,” we recommend that CMS clarify 
how the “new formulations” provision of the Small Biotech Exception fits within its broader interpretive 
framework. The Medicare Drug Price Negotiation Program guidance is premised on the idea that all dosage forms, 
strengths, and formulations of a qualifying single source drug will be treated in the same manner at every stage of 
the Program—including “applying the exception for small biotech drugs”18—as well as selection, determining the 
maximum fair price, and removal from the selected drug list.  Consistent with the broader statutory text (and 
aligning with CMS’s current interpretation of “qualifying single source drug”), we believe the best reading of the 
new formulations provision is that it serves as a clarification that a new formulation on its own may not meet the 
definition of a “small biotech drug.”  Rather, it must be aggregated with any other formulations that satisfy the 
“qualifying single source drug” definition.  An alternative read—that new formulations must be carved out of a 
”qualifying single source drug” that meets the “small biotech drug” definition—would be in direct conflict with the 
Use of Data provision19 applicable to the small biotech drug determination and impractical to implement.  For 
example, it is unclear how CMS would treat a qualifying single source drug, if one portion of the qualifying single 
source drug was subject to the Small Biotech Exception, while another portion (i.e., new formulation(s)) were not 
subject to the Small Biotech Exception. 

Incyte requests that CMS issue draft guidance clarifying how the Agency interprets the new formulations 
provision of the Small Biotech Exception. CMS should solicit public comments on the draft guidance before 
issuing final guidance on the new formulations provision.  

IV. 

CMS Should Clarify Data Elements Included on the Small Biotech Form 

a.  Question 2 – Clarification on Scope of 11-digit National Drug Codes that Manufacturers Must 

Submit for Small Biotech Exception  

As noted above, the IRA’s exception for small biotech drugs excludes certain “qualifying single source drug[s]” 
(QSSDs) from being considered a “negotiation-eligible drug” in 2026, 2027, and 2028.20  

The Small Biotech Exception Information Collection Request Form requires manufacturers to submit NDCs to CMS 
as a part of the small biotech exception determination process.  Specifically, the form states: 

18 Medicare Drug Price Negotiation Program: Initial Memorandum, Implementation of Sections 1191 – 1198 of the Social 
Security Act for Initial Price Applicability Year 2026, and Solicitation of Comments, Section 30.1. 
19 The Use of Data provision states that “[i]n determining whether a qualifying single source drug satisfies the criteria [for 
negotiation-eligible drugs] or [the Small Biotech Exception], the Secretary shall use data that is aggregated across dosage 
forms and strengths of the drug, including new formulations of the drug, such as an extended release formulation, and not 
based on the specific formulation or package size or package type.” SSA 1192(d)(3)(B).  
20 [1192(d)(2)] 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                 
Question 2: Please list all 11-digit National Drug Codes (NDCs) either (A) sold or marketed during 2021 or 
(B) end-dated prior to December 31, 2021 for the covered Part D drug for which the Submitting 
Manufacturer seeks the Small Biotech Exception. 

In CMS’s March 15 guidance on the Medicare Price Negotiation Program,21 CMS defines a QSSD as, “… all dosage 
forms and strengths of drugs with the same active moiety and the same holder of New Drug Application…even if 
those different drug products are marketed under different NDAs….”  

Given CMS’s definition of QSSD in the March 15 guidance, Incyte seeks clarity as to the scope of NDC-11s that 
CMS requires that manufacturers submit on question 2 of the Small Biotech Exception Information Collection 
Request Form.  

Incyte is reviewing the March 15 guidance, including the implications of CMS’s definition of QSSD and how, when 
Jakafi qualifies as a small biotech drug, Opzelura may be impacted. Based on this review, Incyte may provide 
additional comments to the Agency. In the meantime, Incyte asks CMS to confirm that we will only need to submit 
NDC-11s only for Jakafi on the Small Biotech Exception Information Collection Request Form and will not need to 
submit NDC-11s for Opzelura in order for our small biotech exception submission to be considered complete by 
the Agency.  

b.  Question 4—Specify that Manufacturers Should Submit Controlled Group Information Only for 

Those Entities Which Had a Coverage Gap Discount Program Agreement with CMS 

The Small Biotech Exception statute includes an “Aggregation Rule,” which states that “[a]ll persons treated as a 
single employer under section (a) or (b) of section 52 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 shall be treated as one 
manufacturer” for purposes of determining whether the Small Biotech Exception applies (all persons are treated 
as part of the same “controlled group”).22 The ICR proposes the following questions to collect information from 
the relevant members of a controlled group treated as one “manufacturer” of a prospective small biotech drug, 
under the Aggregation Rule:  

Question  4:  Did  the  entity  that  had  a  Coverage  Gap  Discount  Program  agreement  effective  on 
December 31, 2021, for the covered Part D drug for which the Submitting Manufacturer seeks the 
Small  Biotech  Exception  (i.e.,  either  the  Submitting  Manufacturer  or  the  entity  identified  in 
Question 3b, as applicable) have other members in its controlled group as of December 31, 2021? 
For the purpose of this information collection request, “controlled group” means all corporations 
or partnerships, proprietorships and other entities treated as a single employer under 26 U.S. Code 
section 52(a) or (b). 
Yes [] 
No []. 

Question  4a:  If  yes,  provide  the  following  information  as  of  December  31,  2021,  for  each  such 
member  of  the  controlled  group  of  the  entity  that  had  the  Coverage  Gap  Discount  Program 
agreement  effective  on  December  31,  2021,  for  the  covered  Part  D  drug  which  the  Submitting 
Manufacturer seeks the Small Biotech Exception.  

21 Medicare Drug Price Negotiation Program: Initial Memorandum, Implementation of Sections 1191 – 1198 of the Social 
Security Act for Initial Price Applicability Year 2026, and Solicitation of Comments 
22 SSA 1192(d)(2)(B)(i).  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                 
For each member of the entity’s controlled group, the ICR proposes that the Submitting Manufacturer would be 
required to report the following data elements: (a) entity name; (b) employer identification number(s) (EIN(s)); (c) 
address; (d) unique identifier assigned by CMS (P-number); and (e) labeler code(s).   

Incyte recommends that CMS revise Question 4a to remove ambiguity, as that question could be subject to 
multiple interpretations. In particular, it is unclear whether the clause “that had the Coverage Gap Discount 
Agreement effective on December 31, 2021” modifies: (a) “the entity”; or (b) “each such member of the 
controlled group.” We believe that CMS’s intent is the latter such that a Submitting Manufacturer would be 
required to report the requested data elements only for members of the controlled group that had a Coverage 
Gap Discount Agreement effective on December 31, 2021. This interpretation is consistent with the statutory 
criteria for a small biotech drug, which is based on the total Medicare expenditures of a manufacturer in 2021. It 
is also consistent with the requirement to report the P-number for each member of the entity’s controlled group, 
because only members with Coverage Gap Discount Agreements would have a P-number. Generally, if a member 
of the controlled group did not have a Coverage Gap Discount Agreement effective December 31, 2021, it would 
not have had any Part D expenditures in 2021. Alternatively, however, we believe that Question 4a could be read 
to require a Submitting Manufacturer to report on all members of the controlled group, even those that did not 
have a Coverage Gap Discount Agreement effective on December 31, 2021. Such alternative reading would 
increase burdens for manufacturers, who would be required to report information that is not relevant to eligibility 
for the Small Biotech Exception. The inclusion of such irrelevant information also would increase the 
administrative burden of reviewing Small Biotech Exception requests. Finally, we are concerned that this 
ambiguity could lead a manufacturer to submit information the Agency considers incomplete. As outlined in 
Section 30.2.1 of the Medicare Drug Price Negotiation Program guidance, CMS states that it “does not plan to 
consider incomplete submissions.”23 

Therefore, we recommend that CMS revise question 4a to make clear that a Submitting Manufacturer is only 
required to report information on members of the controlled group if the member had a Coverage Gap Discount 
Program agreement effective on December 31, 2021. Specifically, Incyte recommends that CMS align the 
language in question 4a with the corresponding question from the Medicare Part D Manufacturer Discount 
Program Agreement ICR (Part D Discount Program ICR).24  The Small Biotech Exception and the Part D Discount 
Program’s protections for “specified small manufacturers”25 include nearly identical Aggregation Rules. However, 
the proposed Small Biotech Exception ICR and the proposed Part D Discount Program ICR do not include the same 
question(s) to collect information relevant to the each program’s Aggregation Rule. Incyte believes that the 
phrasing in the Part D Discount Program ICR’s question on the Aggregation Rule more clearly articulates that the 
Submitting Manufacturer is only required to report information on members of the controlled group that had a 
Coverage Gap Discount Program agreement effective on December 31, 2021. In relevant part, the Part D Discount 
Program ICR states:  

Did the submitting Manufacturer have a Coverage Gap Discount Program Agreement under 42 USC 
§  1395w-114a  effective  on  December  31,  2021  AND  have  any  other  corporation  or  business 
(whether or not incorporated) in its controlled group, as of December 31, 2021, that had a Coverage 
Gap Discount Program Agreement under 42 USC § 1395w-114a effective on December 31, 2021? 
For the purpose of this information collection request, “controlled group” means all corporations 

23 Medicare Drug Price Negotiation Program: Initial Memorandum, Implementation of Sections 1191 – 1198 of the Social 
Security Act for Initial Price Applicability Year 2026, and Solicitation of Comments, Section 30.2.1 
24 88 Fed. Reg. 7976 (Feb. 7, 2023).  
25 SSA 1860D-14B(g)(4)(C)(ii)(II)(bb) (“All persons treated as a single employer under subsection (a) or (b) of section 52 of the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 shall be treated as one manufacturer for purposes of this subparagraph. For purposes of 
making a determination pursuant to the previous sentence, an agreement under this section shall require that a 
manufacturer provide and attest to such information as specified by the Secretary as necessary.”).  

 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                 
or partnerships, proprietorships and other entities treated as a single employer under 26 U.S. Code 
sehction 52(a) or (b). Y/N26 

For each member of the entity’s controlled group, the Part D Discount Program’s ICR proposes that the 
Submitting Manufacturer would be required to report the same data elements as the Small Biotech Exception ICR: 
(a) entity name; (b) employer identification number(s) (EIN(s)); (c) address; (d) unique identifier assigned by CMS 
(P-number); and (e) labeler code(s).   

Therefore, to improve clarity, remove ambiguity, and align both ICRs, Incyte requests that CMS replace question 4 
and question 4a on the Small Biotech Exception ICR with the above question from the proposed Part D Discount 
Program ICR.  

c.  Limit the Certification to the Intended Use of this ICR— Eligibility for the Small Biotech 

Exception under the Program  

In the section justifying the “Need and Legal Basis” for this ICR, CMS states that “[t]his information is required in 
order for CMS to accurately identify whether a given drug meets the criteria for the Small Biotech Exception in 
accordance with section 1192(d)(2) of the Act.”27 The certification that the Submitting Manufacturer is required to 
complete, however, is much broader than CMS’s stated need for this ICR. In relevant part, the certification states 
the following:  

I understand the information contained in this submission is being provided to and will be relied 
upon by CMS for Medicare reimbursement purposes, including to determine whether the covered 
Part D drug of the Submitting Manufacturer qualifies for the Small Biotech Exception, as described 
in section 1192(d)(2) of the Social Security Act.28  

First, the certification states that the information will be used “for Medicare reimbursement purposes,” even 
though the Small Biotech Exception is only relevant under the Program—not Medicare, more broadly. 29 
Additionally, the use of the word “including” could be interpreted to permit CMS to use information collected 
under this ICR for purposes other than eligibility for the Small Biotech Exception. Incyte believes that CMS should 
closely align the certification with the Agency’s stated need for this ICR. Therefore, we recommend revising the 
ICR’s certification to read as follows:  

I understand the information contained in this submission is being provided to and will be relied 
upon by CMS for Medicare reimbursement purposes of the program under part E of Title XI of the 
Social Security Act,;  including specifically, for CMS to determine whether the covered Part D drug 
of the Submitting Manufacturer qualifies for the Small Biotech Exception, as described in section 
1192(d)(2) of the Social Security Act.  

We believe this proposed revision reflects the ICR’s justification—to determine whether a drug qualifies for the 
Small Biotech Exception under the Program.  

****** 

26 Medicare Part D Manufacturer Discount Program Agreement; Appendix A, Proposed Part D Manufacturer Discount 
Program (MDP) Data Entry Fields in HPMS at 4.  
27 Small Biotech ICR Form (CMS 10844, OMB 0938-NEW) at 2. 
28 Id. at 4 (emphasis added).  
29 Id.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                 
Incyte appreciates the opportunity to comment on this Information Collection Request on the Small Biotech 
Exception. We hope that CMS consider the suggestions and clarifications outlined above. We would welcome the 
opportunity to meet with you or answer any questions CMS may have about our comments, at your request. 
Thank you.  

Sincerely,  

Barry Flannelly 
Executive Vice President & General Manager 
North America