Re: Medicare Enrollment Application for Institutional Providers 

CMS-2023-0007-0001 

Submitted Electronically via Regulations.gov 

February 13, 2023 

NAHC is the largest trade association representing the interests of Medicare home health agencies (HHAs) 
and hospices nationwide including nonprofit, proprietary, urban and rural based, hospital affiliated, public 
and private corporate entities, and government run providers of home care since 1982. NAHC members 
provide most Medicare home care services throughout the U.S.   

NAHC supports and appreciates CMS’ efforts to improve the information received as part of the provider 
enrollment and provider revalidation processes.  We strongly support thorough investigation into those 
seeking to become Medicare certified providers and those revalidating enrollment.  Therefore, we 
welcome the opportunity to comment on the revisions to the Medicare provider enrollment application, 
CMS Form 855A and offer the following comments below. 

INSTRUCTIONS 
As part of our comments submitted in 2019 to Medicare, Medicaid, and Children’s Health Insurance 
Programs; Program Integrity Enhancements to the Provider Enrollment Process (CMS-6058-FC), we 
recommended more detailed instructions in the CMS 855A and are pleased to see expanded instructions.  
The information necessary for proper completion of the 855A is complex and the application can be quite 
confusing especially for providers or individuals applying for the first time. As much information about 
the provider enrollment and revalidation process that can be provided to applicants should be provided.  
Thus it would be beneficial that instructions of the 855A point applicants to the CMS Program Integrity 
Manual. The 855A is developed to support the rules applicable to enrollment and revalidation upon which 
this Manual is based, and the terms used in the 855A are further explained in the Manual.  

SECTION 2: TYPE OF PROVIDER 
The choice of enrolling a sub-unit for home health agencies remains.  Home health agency sub-units were 
eliminated with the conditions of participation effective January 2018 so this reference should be 
removed.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 3: FINAL ADVERSE LEGAL ACTIONS 
Even though additional instructions have been added, it is not clear which types of revocations, 
suspensions, any federal sanctions, and any Medicaid or any federal health care program exclusions, 
revocations, or terminations of any billing number must be disclosed.  If a provider incurred a “Payment 
Suspension” as a result of a late filed cost report, which was subsequently filed and the payment 
suspension lifted, would this be a disclosable event. We are aware of circumstances under which a 
provider filed a cost report timely but for some reason the MAC did not record the receipt of the cost 
report and suspended payments. The provider refiled the cost report and the payment suspension was 
lifted. In another situation a provider submitted cost reports to one MAC timely and the cost report was 
accepted; however, subsequent thereto a CHOW was approved, and the new MAC suspended payments 
because it did not receive the cost reports. The cost reports were reprocessed and submitted resulting in 
the lifting of the payment suspension. Another reason for a payment suspension is the application of 
alternative sanctions or enforcement remedies during a Medicare recertification survey. A survey is 
conducted for the purpose of assessing compliance with the conditions of participation and provision of 
quality of care and is not intended to and does not identify events that indicate fraud, waste and abuse.  If 
a provider has an outstanding debt to the Medicare program as of the date that the Form CMS-855 is 
being prepared but the debt is being recovered, is that obligation a disclosable event? This could occur 
during the settlement of a Periodic Interim Payment (“PIP”) arrangement. Providing examples of types of 
revocations, suspensions, sanctions and exclusions that are not required to be disclosed would be helpful. 

Indicating in the application what liabilities or consequences attach to the provider if it does not disclose 
an adverse legal action of an owner or managing employee may support more accurate and complete 
disclosures on the application.  

Applicants may question when the 10-year timeframe associated with disclosures begins. Is it 10-years 
prior to the date of the application or 10 years prior to the calendar year of application? For providers 
using the 855A for revalidation, does the 10-year timeframe begin anew with each revalidation?  
Providing this clarification in instructions would be helpful.  

BURDEN ESTIMATE 
The estimate of 45 minutes for completion of Additional Final Adverse Actions is far lower than what 
institutional providers will spend in this area.  The amount of time it will take the provider to collect the 
necessary information from each owner and managing employee is significant.  Providers we have spoken 
with estimate that it will take them an average of 30 minutes per owner and managing employee at hire 
and on a regular basis (most providers would require the information be updated annually).  The provider 
needs to explain the disclosure requirement to the owner(s) and managing employee(s), ensure each has 
completed a disclosure record, review the record for completeness, and then transfer any necessary 
disclosures to the form. This process must be repeated with each new owner/managing employee and 
must be repeated for the all owner(s)/managing employee(s) on a regular basis in order to maintain 
accurate and complete records of disclosures for revalidation purposes.  

Identifying the type of owning or managing organization will take more than 12 minutes on average.  
Providers have indicated that it will take them a minimum of 15 minutes to obtain the information if they 
are part of a larger organization and another 15-30 minutes to properly identify the type of owning or 
managing organization based on the information.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Again, thank you for this opportunity to submit comments.  Please direct any questions to 
Katie@nahc.org.   

Sincerely, 

Katie Wehri 

Katie Wehri 
Director of Home Health & Hospice Regulatory Affairs