Charles N. Kahn III 
President and CEO 

February 13, 2022 

The Honorable Chiquita Brooks-LaSure 
Administrator 
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services 
Department of Health and Human Services 
Hubert H. Humphrey Building 
200 Independence Avenue, SW Room 445-G 
Washington, DC 20201 

RE:   CMS–10527, CMS–10260, CMS–10836 and CMS–855A. Agency Information 

Collection Activities: Proposed Collection; Comment Request; December 15, 2022 

Dear Administrator Brooks-LaSure: 

The Federation of American Hospitals (FAH) is the national representative of more than 

1,000 investor-owned or managed community hospitals and health systems throughout the 
United States.  Our members include teaching and non-teaching hospitals in urban and rural parts 
of America, as well as inpatient rehabilitation, psychiatric, long-term acute care, and cancer 
hospitals.  The FAH appreciates the opportunity to comment to the Centers for Medicare & 
Medicaid Services (CMS) on proposed revisions to the Medicare Enrollment Application - 
Institutional Providers (Form CMS 855A) following CMS’s Notice of Agency Information 
Collection Activities: Proposed Collection, published in the Federal Register on December 17, 
2022 (87 Fed. Reg. 76,626). 

The FAH supports many of the changes proposed, including the revisions designed to 

correct errors, create a uniform standard across the enrollment applications, improve instructions, 
and minimize burden.  The FAH, however, believes that three of the proposed changes are 
inappropriate and should not be finalized: (1) the removal of reporting on physician ownership 
from Section 2A(4), (2) the addition of new outpatient provider-based department information in 
Section 4A, and (3) the collection of new ownership information focused on private equity and 
real estate investment trusts (REITs) in Sections 5 and 6. 

750 9th Street, NW, Suite 600, Washington, DC  20001 • 202-624-1500 • FAX 202-737-6462 • www.fah.org 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2A(4)—Removal of Physician-Owned Hospital Information.  The FAH 

strongly opposes the proposed removal of section 2A(4), which currently collects minimal 
information on physician-owned hospitals (POHs).  Instead, the FAH urges CMS to (1) retain 
this question on Form CMS 855A, taking the necessary steps to include responses as a data point 
in the Provider Enrollment, Chain, and Ownership System (PECOS) ownership dataset, and 
(2) finally require that POHs submit the annual reports mandated by Congress by completing 
Form CMS 855POH.  Congress recognized the critical risks associated with POHs with the 
adoption of the Affordable Care Act (ACA), which, inter alia, prohibits the enrollment of new 
POHs, limits the expansion of existing POHs, and imposes certain POH transparency 
requirements.  Transparency, in particular, is critical to ensure that regulators and potential 
patients are aware of physician ownership, which carries unique risks with respect to physician 
conflicts of interest and high-cost, low-value care.1 

The cited justification for eliminating the POH “Yes/No” question from Section 2A is 

that “Physician owned hospital reporting is no longer required via the CMS-855 applications.”  
But no supporting rationale for eliminating POH reporting via Form CMS 855A is provided.  
This unexplained erosion of transparency measures for POHs should not be finalized.  Rather, 
the FAH urges CMS to retain this question, include responses in the ownership dataset, and 
expand information collection for POHs.  With respect to the ownership dataset, at present, 
responses in section 2A(4) do not appear in the PECOS ownership dataset.  This dataset, which 
is updated monthly, provides valuable information and transparency around ownership, but it is 
not populated with information from Section 2A of the Form CMS 855A.  Therefore, we urge 
CMS to either move the POH “Yes/No” question from Section 2A to Sections 5 and 6 or to 
revise the data sources for the ownership dataset to include responses to the POH question in 
section 2A(4). 

Beyond adding POH data to the ownership dataset, the FAH believes that further delays 

in POHs’ annual reporting on ownership and investment interests are unwarranted.  At present, it 
appears that despite the statutory requirement that POHs submit to the Secretary an annual report 
reporting on ownership and investment interests (42 U.S.C. § 1395nn(i)(C)(i)) and the adoption 
of an implementing regulation (42 C.F.R. § 411.362(b)(3)(i)), POHs have not been submitting 
this information.  Rather, POHs have been instructed that they are not required to submit a 
completed Form CMS-855POH or a completed Attachment 1 of the Form CMS-855A since 
March 12, 2015.2  Thus, the FAH strongly urges CMS to not only retain the POH question in 
Section 2A but also provide final instructions commencing annual reporting of POH ownership 
and investment in accordance with express requirements of 42 U.S.C. § 1395nn(i)(C)(i). 

1 These issues were given prominence in Atul Gawande’s seminal article highlighting the extraordinary 
cost of care at Doctors Hospital at Renaissance (DHR).  The Cost Conundrum—What a Texas Town Can 
Teach Us about Health Care, NEW YORKER (June 1, 2009), available at 
https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2009/06/01/the-cost-conundrum.  CMS recently granted DHR’s 
request to add a total of 551 operating rooms, procedure rooms, and beds at a new facility more than 50 
miles away from the main hospital and in another county.  87 Fed. Reg. 77,844 (Dec. 20, 2022). 

2 Physician-Owned Hospitals, CMS (Dec. 16, 2022, 4:22 PM), https://www.cms.gov/medicare/fraud-and-
abuse/physicianselfreferral/physician_owned_hospitals; Medicare Program Integrity Manual, Chapter 10, 
section 10.2.1.8.B.4.    

2 

 
 
Section 4A—Additional reporting requirements in Section 4.  The FAH opposes the 
proposed revisions to Form CMS 855A because they are unnecessary and inappropriate.  The 
proposed revisions would compel the provider to attest that the facility “satisfies applicable 
requirements at 42 CFR 413.65,” but provider attestations of compliance with the requirements 
of 42 C.F.R. § 413.65 have been voluntary since the 2003 Inpatient Prospective Payment System 
Final Rule.3  Under long-standing CMS policy and regulations, only a provider “seek[ing] a 
determination of provider-based status” would submit an attestation stating that the facility meets 
the applicable provider-based criteria.4  The justification for this change does not provide any 
rationale from deviating from this practice, and at a minimum, the language indicating that the 
provider “satisfies applicable requirements at 42 CFR 413.65” should be stricken. 

The FAH is also concerned that the eight categories of provider-based departments are 

unclear and contradictory.  By way of example, it is unclear whether the “remote location” 
checkbox should be used for the inpatient facility that is the remote location because this 
checkbox is within the category of “Outpatient Provider-Based Department (PBD) Site” and the 
remote location is not an outpatient provider-based department.  Likewise, it is unclear which 
boxes should be checked for an off-campus dedicated emergency department (ED).  Such a 
facility would be a “dedicated emergency department (ED)” (the third checkbox for outpatient 
PBD sites), but it would also be an outpatient PBD that is “off-campus” of the main provider (the 
fourth checkbox) and an outpatient PBD that is “excepted off-campus” pursuant to 42 C.F.R. 
§ 419.48(b).  Far from reducing provider burden, this proposed revisions to section 4A would 
create confusion.  Moreover, this language is unnecessary to the implementation of Section 603 
of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 (Pub. L. 114-74) as CMS has required providers to use the 
“PO” and “PN” modifiers on claim forms to report excepted and non-excepted off-campus PBDs 
since January 1, 2017. 

Section 4C(2)—Additional Reporting Requirements for Disclosure of Electronic 
Record Storage.  The FAH has significant concerns with the proposed addition to question 4C(2) 
regarding electronic storage sites as public disclosure of the requested information could create 
significant cybersecurity risks for providers, and urges CMS to eliminate or modify this addition.  
As proposed, providers that store patient medical records electronically would be required to 
“identify where/how these records are stored.”  The instructions for this proposed question 
further specify: “This can be website, URL, in-house software program, online service, vendor, 
etc.  This must be an electronic storage site that can be accessed by CMS or its designees if 
necessary.”  To the extent that this question is seeking disclosure of a link that can be accessed 
by CMS or its designees directly, such a disclosure would be inconsistent with security 
standards.  If that is not what is being requested, the wording of the question should be 
appropriately revised to reference a site “to which CMS or its designees can be provided access 
if necessary.”   

Hospitals and health systems have been the targets of significantly disruptive 
cybersecurity attacks in recent years, and any question on the Form CMS 855A regarding the 
storage of electronic medical records ought to be narrowly tailored to keep the request as 

3 67 Fed. Reg. 49982, 50,084-88 (Aug. 1, 2002) (finalizing 42 C.F.R. 413.65(b)(3)). 

4 42. C.F.R. § 413.65(b)(3) 

3 

 
 
targeted as possible and minimize the creation of new risks.  To this end, it would not appear that 
there is a need to solicit any details regarding the location of electronically stored patient medical 
records on the Form CMS 855A.  Rather, the FAH believes CMS’s interests could be met by a 
question that asks whether or not the provider has a record retention policy that addresses 
electronically stored patient medical records.  Such a question would be similar to current 
question 3 in Section 2A regarding the hospital compliance plan. 

Lastly, we note that the proposed wording of the instructions for this question would 

create uncertainty among providers.  It is unclear whether the question is soliciting information 
regarding the location of the electronic data (e.g., local servers, the cloud) or the software 
platform used to store the data, and how a provider would complete this question if the “where” 
and “how” involve different vendors and in-house solutions.  And it is also unclear how a 
hospital would complete this question if it has multiple storage sites for these records.  In any 
case, because disclosure of even limited information regarding the storage of these electronic 
records may pose a security risk (and imposes an undue burden if a provider would be required 
to update its enrollment with every change to a URL), the FAH urges CMS to eliminate the 
request for information regarding “where/how these records are stored” and instead focus on a 
targeted question confirming the existence of a record retention policy that addresses these 
records. 

Sections 5A & 6A—The FAH opposes the proposed addition of the “Yes/No” question 

on ownership of each entity with an ownership role.  The proposed question asks, “Is this 
organization itself owned by any other organization or by any individual?”  The FAH is 
concerned that Form CMS 855A is being expanded with questions that do little or nothing to 
improve the gatekeeping functions of the provider enrollment process, creating unwarranted 
administrative burdens for providers. 

Sections 5B & 6B—Private Equity and REITs.  Lastly, the FAH is concerned that the 

justification presented for adding private equity and REITs to Section 5 (organizational 
ownership) and Section 6 (individual ownership) inappropriately disparages private equity 
owners.  The supporting justification for this change states: “[t]he data collection provides 
greater transparency regarding the owners and managers for Part A facilities, given concerns 
about the credentials and commitment to high-quality patient care of certain types of nursing 
home ownership, including private equity firms.”  This sweeping statement impugns the 
credibility and commitment of certain owner types, without providing any supporting basis or 
rationale for the accusation.  It is particularly important to use considered judgment when adding 
to sections 5 and 6 of the Form CMS 855A because information reported in these sections are 
made public, including through the PECOS ownership dataset.  Any concerns regarding nursing 
home ownership do not support additional reporting requirements and public disclosures for the 
many other Part A providers that are required to complete Form CMS 855A.  The FAH therefore 
urges CMS to decline to adopt these proposed changes.  The FAH is particularly concerned that 
this justification prioritizes transparency regarding private equity and REIT ownership at the 
same time that transparency is being eroded for POHs despite the statutory mandate for annual 
reporting on POH ownership and investment. 

4 

 
 
* * * * * * 

Thank you for the opportunity to comment on the proposed revisions to the Medicare 

Enrollment Application.  If you have any questions, please contact me or a member of my staff 
at 202-624-1534.  

Sincerely, 

5